Added guide-using-victoriametrics-to-monitor-vmware-vcenter (#2132)
VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics: docs/guides/guide-using-victoriametrics-to-monitor-vmware-vcenter.md

ID:                   1800
  Enabled:            true
  Interval:           30m
  Available Samples:  336
  Name:               Past week
  Level:              1
ID:                   7200
  Enabled:            true
  Interval:           2h
  Available Samples:  360
  Name:               Past month
  Level:              1
ID:                   86400
  Enabled:            true
  Interval:           24h
  Available Samples:  365
  Name:               Past year
  Level:              1
```

Run this command to export list of available metrics to file `vm.out`:

```bash
./govc metric.ls /*/vm/* > vm.out
```

This command will show information about a specific meter `cpu.usage.average`:

```bash
./govc metric.info - cpu.usage.average
```

The result is similar to the example given in the documentation:

```bash
Name:                cpu.usage.average
  Label:             Usage
  Summary:           CPU usage as a percentage during the interval
  Group:             CPU
  Unit:              %
  Rollup type:       average
  Stats type:        rate
  Level:             1
    Intervals:       Past day,Past week,Past month,Past year
  Per-device level:  3
    Intervals:
```

## VictoriaMetrics

> It is assumed that VictoriaMetrics(Cluster or Single) and vmagent are installed and running. The agent should be installed on hosts with vmware_exporter, telegraf, so that if the base is unavailable, the received metrics can be stored in the cache on the local disk. Here we need to decide how often metrics will be written to database - for example, every minute. Then minimal config for vmagent is the following:

Reviewer: Can we link to installation guides?

Reviewer: > The agent should be installed on hosts with vmware_exporter, telegraf, so that if the base is unavailable, the received metrics can be stored in the cache on the local disk

It would store metrics disk even if installed on a separate node, wouldn't it?

```bash
global:
  scrape_interval: 60s
  scrape_timeout: 30s

scrape_configs:
  - job_name: vmagent
    static_configs:
    - targets:
      - exporters-host:8429
  - job_name: victoria-metrics
    static_configs:
    - targets:
      - victoriametrics-host:8428
```

> > If you don't have pre-installed VictoriaMetrics and vmagen` you can install it with the next commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you don't have pre-installed VictoriaMetrics and vmagent you can install it with the following commands:
```

RestartSec=1
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/victoriametrics/vmagent/vmagent.conf
ExecStart=/usr/bin/vmagent-prod $ARGS
ExecStop=/bin/kill -s SIGTERM $MAINPID
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
# See docs https://docs.victoriametrics.com/Single-server-VictoriaMetrics.html#tuning
LimitNOFILE=1048576
LimitNPROC=1048576
LimitCORE=infinity
WorkingDirectory=/var/lib/vmagent-remotewrite-data
ReadWritePaths=/var/lib/vmagent-remotewrite-data
StandardOutput=syslog
StandardError=syslog
SyslogIdentifier=vmagent
PrivateTmp=yes
ProtectHome=yes
NoNewPrivileges=yes
ProtectSystem=strict
ProtectControlGroups=true
ProtectKernelModules=true
ProtectKernelTunables=yes
END

cat <<END >/etc/victoriametrics/vmagent/vmagent.conf
# https://docs.victoriametrics.com/vmagent.html
#
# Example command line:
# /path/to/vmagent -promscrape.config=/path/to/prometheus.yml -remoteWrite.url=https://victoria-metrics-host:8428/api/v1/write
#
# Please note that to write scraped data from vmagent to VictoriaMetrics Cluster you should use url like in this example -remoteWrite.url=http://vminsert-ip:8480/insert/0/prometheus/ .
# See more information here https://docs.victoriametrics.com/Cluster-VictoriaMetrics.html#url-format.
# 

> # If you only need to collect Influx data, then the following command is sufficient:

Reviewer: why Influx is mentioned here?

#
# /path/to/vmagent -remoteWrite.url=https://victoria-metrics-host:8428/api/v1/write
#
# Then send Influx data to http://vmagent-host:8429. See these https://docs.victoriametrics.com/Single-server-VictoriaMetrics.html#how-to-send-data-from-influxdb-compatible-agents-such-as-telegraf for more details.
ARGS="-promscrape.config=/etc/victoriametrics/vmagent/scrape.yml -remoteWrite.url=http://127.0.0.1:8428/api/v1/write -remoteWrite.tmpDataPath=/var/lib/vmagent-remotewrite-data -promscrape.suppressScrapeErrors -influxTrimTimestamp=1s -remoteWrite.urlRelabelConfig=/etc/victoriametrics/vmagent/telegraf.yml"
END

cat <<END >/etc/victoriametrics/vmagent/scrape.yml
# Scrape config example
#
global:
  scrape_interval: 60s
  scrape_timeout: 30s

scrape_configs:
  - job_name: vmagent
    static_configs:
    - targets: ['127.0.0.1:8429']
  - job_name: victoria-metrics
    static_configs:
    - targets: ['127.0.0.1:8428']
END

# Start VictoriaMetrics
systemctl enable vmagent.service
systemctl restart vmagent.service
```

> vmagent can be run with flags or specify to use parameters from variables. For the second option `/etc/victoriametrics/vmagent/vmagent.conf` will look this:

Reviewer: > vmagent can be run with flags or specify to use parameters from variables

it is better to use language from vmagent docs here or place a link.

> For the second option

I think I missed the first option. What was it?

```

Create `config.yml` file with the next configuration:

```bash
cat <<END >config.yml
default:
    vsphere_host: "vcenter-host"
    vsphere_user: "vmuser"
    vsphere_password: "pswd"
    ignore_ssl: True
    specs_size: 5000
    fetch_custom_attributes: True
    fetch_tags: False
    fetch_alarms: False
    collect_only:
        vms: True
        vmguests: True
        datastores: False
        hosts: False
        snapshots: True
END
```

Run `vmware_exporter`:

```bash
vmware_exporter -c config.yml
```

Check that exporter show metrics by running curl query:

```bash
curl http://localhost:9272/metrics
```

Add a job to poll the exporter in vmagent with the next configuration:

```bash
 - job_name: vcenter
    metric_relabel_configs:
    - regex: ^([A-Z]):.*
      replacement: $1
      source_labels:
      - partition
      target_label: partition
    - action: drop
      regex: /target|/storage/archive
      source_labels:
      - partition
    - action: labeldrop
      regex: host_name|ds_name
    static_configs:
    - targets:
      - exporters-host:9272
```

When polling the exporter the relabel rules will be applied to all received metrics namely:

> the partition names of windows OS disks will have colons removed otherwise they will have to be escaped in queries;

Reviewer: nit: should these options form a list?

all metrics with partitions in linux `/target` or `/storage/archive` will be removed because there is no sense to collect them;
remove `host_name` and `ds_name` labels to reduce the number of time series a.k.a. [churn rate](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/FAQ.html#what-is-high-churn-rate).

## telegraf

> > The polling interval is specified in each configuration file or globally. It makes sense to make a lot of files because if the plugin does not have time to complete the work in the specified interval the data on all devices will be lost. When a problem occurs, the loss of monitoring data makes monitoring pointless. 

Reviewer: > It makes sense to make a lot of files because if the plugin does not have time to complete the work in the specified interval the data on all devices will be lost.

I didn't get it.

We need to [install telegraf](https://docs.influxdata.com/telegraf/v1.21/introduction/installation/) and create configuration file without unnecessary lines.

Run this command to create it:

```bash
telegraf --input-filter vsphere --output-filter influxdb config | grep -v '#' | grep -v '^$' > influx
```

> Then apply changes to configuration but keep in mind that timestamp is rounded to seconds in precision, the interval is 1m and put the inputs section in a separate file. The final configuration in `/etc/telegraf/telegra.conf` will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then apply changes to configuration but keep in mind that timestamp is rounded to seconds in precision, the interval is 1m and put the inputs section in a separate file. The final configuration in `/etc/telegraf/telegraf.conf` will look like the following:
```

    "cpu.usagemhz.average",
    "cpu.usage.average",
    "mem.active.average",
    "mem.granted.average",
    "mem.consumed.average",
    "mem.usage.average",
    "mem.vmmemctl.average",
    "net.bytesRx.average",
    "net.bytesTx.average",
    "net.droppedRx.summation",
    "net.droppedTx.summation",
    "net.usage.average",
    "power.power.average",
    "virtualDisk.numberReadAveraged.average",
    "virtualDisk.numberWriteAveraged.average",
    "virtualDisk.read.average",
    "virtualDisk.readOIO.latest",
    "virtualDisk.throughput.usage.average",
    "virtualDisk.totalReadLatency.average",
    "virtualDisk.totalWriteLatency.average",
    "virtualDisk.write.average",
    "virtualDisk.writeOIO.latest",
    "sys.uptime.latest",
  ]
  host_include = []
  host_exclude = ["*"]
  cluster_include = []
  cluster_exclude = ["*"]
  datastore_include = []
  datastore_exclude = ["*"]
  datacenter_include = []
  datacenter_exclude = ["*"]
  separator = "_"
  collect_concurrency = 10
  discover_concurrency = 10
  custom_attribute_include = ["*"]
  custom_attribute_exclude = []
  insecure_skip_verify = true
  historical_interval = "5m"

[inputs.vsphere.tags]
 job = "vmware_vm"
```

> There will be a separate job tag for each plugin/file similar to other exporters. Directly here `job="vmware_vm"` will be added to each metric. The tags specified in `tagexclude` will be removed from each metric. The `historical_interval` defaults to 5 minutes and matches the interval from `metric.interval.info`. All custom attributes, if any - then they will be used as tags.

Reviewer: > All custom attributes, if any - then they will be used as tags.

I didn't get it.

After installation telegraf is up and running with the default config file. The relabel config `/etc/victoriametrics/vmagent/telegraf.yml`:

```yaml
---
# rename label
- action: labelmap_all
  regex: "vmname"
  replacement: "vm_name"
# remove labels
- action: labeldrop
  regex:
    - "db"
```

must be configured before restarting.

## VMUI

vmagent polls vmware_exporter once a minute and receives metrics from telegraf via influx protocol. You can go to `http://victoriametrics-host:8428/vmui/` in the instant query table and make queries to see what telegraf has collected. For example run the following query:

```bash
max({job="vmware_vm"}) by  (__name__)
```

To see what data was collected by `vmware_exporter` run the following query:

```bash
max({job="vcenter"}) by  (__name__)
```

## Grafana

To see the graphs we need to:
[install grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/);
[add Prometheus datasource](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/Single-server-VictoriaMetrics.html#grafana-setup) with url `http://victoriametrics-host:8428`;
create or add ready-made dashboards. Note that dashboards for influx will have to be redone completely.

> ## Kapacitor

Reviewer: Why it is listed here then?
